---
title: My thoughts on blogging
pubDate: 2016-08-26
slug: 2016/my-thoughts-on-blogging
---

**This week I decided to write something more about what are reasons I
wrote this blog, what I am taking from it so if you want some more
technical post please check other articles.**

## What I want from this blog

I started this blog as a reference to myself about things in software
development that I learn along the way. Moreover, this blog is a place
to present my own opinions but I really welcome any comments especially
ones that expand my view.

## Why blogging?

I see couple benefits of blogging. First of all, you are learning. And I
mean a lot- every blog post I write teach me something- either how to
format my code in code snippets or implementation specific things.
People who giving comments either via reddit or disqus teach me
something. And I really mean that. Before I started writing content I
knew that there will be people who are haters and while I was
thinking how to be invulnerable to such persons I came to the conclusion
that **every** guy who left the comment on my blog wants to teach me
something- I try not to take things personally.

Another thing is also connected with learning- your are learning not
even how to code but you also learn how to write, to write in English.
This language isn't my native one so I still have trouble with writing
long passages of text in English but with every post, I make myself
better.

The last thing with learning is my belief that the best way to learn
something is to teach this thing to another human being. You have to
know a big deal of subject if you want to write a good blog post and
during writing, you are thinking how to present this topic in simple and
consistent manner.

## Conclusion and why I write this post

I made this quick blog post for the remainder to myself why I made this
blog as well as for readers who may be interested in figuring out for
what reason I write. But the most important thing is: I made this post
because I don't have time this week to prepare proper blog post and I
added some features to ease sharing content wrote by me.
