---
title: Monorepo structure for Django & React Applications
pubDate: 2017-08-20
slug: 2017/monorepo-structure-for-django-and-react-applications
---

**Hello! Today I will guide you through setting up React application
with Django! Let's get started!**

First thing is where I place my javascript application? Should it be in
another repository? Or maybe Django should use webpack to render js?

I decided to use pattern called `monorepo`. What does it mean? It means
that you will have your Django application in one folder and React
application in another folder under the **same** repository.

What are benefits of such approach? Deployment is a little bit easier as
you deploy whole repository, not different services. You can write
integrations tests more easily. Everything will be governed by
`docker-compose`. Downsides? To release the only backend you will have
to release also frontend part.

So how will my folder structure look like?

```shell
.
├── compose
│   ├── django
│   └── ui
├── film_api
│   ├── config
│   ├── film_database
│   └── requirements
└── film_ui
    ├── public
    └── src
```

So in `film_api`, I keep all my backend service. In `film_ui` lays React
code from
[create-react-app](https://github.com/facebookincubator/create-react-app).

How do I setup this everything? I use docker-compose:

```yaml
film_ui:
  build:
  context: .
  dockerfile: ./compose/ui/Dockerfile
  volumes:
    - ./film_ui/:/app
    - /app/node_modules
  command: yarn start
  ports:
    - "3000:3000"
```

The interesting setting here is volume `/app/node_modules` which allow
docker to see `node_modules` from a host machine. I also use Dockerfile:

```docker
FROM node:8

WORKDIR /app
COPY ./film_ui/package.json /app
COPY ./film_ui/yarn.lock /app

RUN yarn install

ADD ./film_ui/ /app
```

Thanks to such configuration I have live reloading and docker see
changes that I made in the code base. This part was based on [Lessons
from Building a Node App in
Docker](http://jdlm.info/articles/2016/03/06/lessons-building-node-app-docker.html).

That's all! I got my application ready to connect it to GraphQL so I
will be displaying real data from the database instead of hard coded
ones.

What's your approach to the structure of python with javascript
application? Let me know in comments!

Repo with code can be found on
[github](https://github.com/krzysztofzuraw/personal-blog-projects/tree/master/blog_django_graphql_react_relay).
