---
title: PyConPL 2016
date: 2016-10-16
permalink: "/blog/2016/pyconpl-2016/index.html"
---

**This weekend I was on PyConPL conference. This is a short relation
from this event.**

## Day 1

I was on a presentation by Marcin Bardź _PostgreSQL i SQLAlchemy Duet
(nie)doskonały_. It was a talk about the tandem of two tools that are
commonly used in Python world: PostreSQL and SQLAlchemy. In this talk,
Marcin presented a basic description of what exactly a database is, how
postgresql is meeting the requirements of a good database. Then he
talked about SQLAlchemy basic stuff like quering, creating tables or
making relations. I would have liked this talk more if it would been for
more experienced people. But in general it was a good talk.

## Day 2

It was a hard day. Only talks that I had time to attend were lightning
talks where I found a range of topics starting from python tests to golf
coding contest. As I am on this topic I was one of the makers of my
company Code Golf game - golf.stxnext.pl. It was a simple code golf game
in which contestants had to solve one of the following tasks: game of
life, tic tac toe and reverse polish notation. What I have learned from
this is that there always have to be tests. **ALWAYS**. I don't have
ones and as it turns out there was a problem that my test cases that
were supposed to test code were bugged and solving this issue on spot
isn't pleasant.

## Day 3

In the morning I was attending talk by Michał Lowas Rzecionek about
Async.io: _Async pod maską_. It was an interesting talk about what
exactly is going on under the hood in ansync.io. Next presentation that
I happened to be at was a keynote by Jessica McKellar about systems. It
was an interesting talk mainly about current social systems and their
relation to programming.

## Day 4

During the conference, there was a very interesting capture the flag
competition. The theme of this CTF was the Lord of the Rings. As it
turns out there was about 60 teams of 2 people. Tasks were not so easy
and many people did not do all 10 tasks. Right after that there was a
talk by Kasia Jachim about how to write code that is not testable. To be
honest I really don't know what this talk was about.

This was my short relation from this year PyConPl 2016. What are your
feelings? Please tell me in comments.

Special thanks to Kasia for being editor for this post. Thank you.
